Title: SWEET-Cat 2.0: The Cat just got SWEETer; Higher quality spectra and precise parallaxes from GAIA eDR3
Authors: S. G. Sousa, V. Adibekyan, E. Delgado-Mena, N. C. Santos, B. Rojas-Ayala, B. M. T. B. Soares, H. Legoinha, S. Ulmer-Moll, J. D. Camacho, S. C. C. Barros, O. D. S. Demangeon, S. Hoyer, G. Israelian, A. Mortier, M. Tsantaki, M. Monteiro
Published: 2021-09-10
arXiv ID: http://arxiv.org/abs/2109.04781v1
Categories: astro-ph.EP, astro-ph.IM, astro-ph.SR
Abstract:
Aims. The catalog of Stars With ExoplanETs (SWEET-Cat) was originally introduced in 2013. Since then many more exoplanets have been confirmed, increasing significantly the number of host stars listed there. A crucial step toward a comprehensive understanding of these new worlds is the precise and homogeneous characterization of their host stars. Better spectroscopic stellar parameters along with new results from Gaia eDR3 provide updated and precise parameters for the discovered planets. A new version of the catalog, whose homogeneity in the derivation of the parameters is key to unraveling star-planet connections, is available to the community. Methods. We made use of high-resolution spectra for planet-host stars, either observed by our team or collected through public archives. The spectroscopic stellar parameters were derived for the spectra following the same homogeneous process using ARES and MOOG (ARES+MOOG) as for the previous SWEET-Cat releases. We re-derived parameters for the stars in the catalog using better quality spectra and/or using the most recent versions of the codes. Moreover, the new SWEET-Cat table can now be more easily combined with the planet properties listed both at the Extrasolar Planets Encyclopedia and at the NASA exoplanet archive to perform statistical analyses of exoplanets. We also made use of the recent GAIA eDR3 parallaxes and respective photometry to derive consistent and accurate surface gravity values for the host stars. Results. We increased the number of stars with homogeneous parameters by more than 40\% (from 645 to 928). We reviewed and updated the metallicity distributions of stars hosting planets with different mass regimes comparing the low-mass planets (< 30M$_{\oplus}$) with the high-mass planets. The new data strengthen previous results showing the possible trend in the metallicity-period-mass diagram for low-mass planets.
